---
layout: post
title: "eBPF in Plain English"
author: israel
featured: false
categories: [ 'Cloud Native' ]
tags: [containers, devops, cloud-native, kubernetes, ebpf ]
image: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2548160/161966571-0e2f2d03-9cc3-499e-b45d-04813ff9d91e.jpeg
date:  2022-04-06 15:01:35 +0300
excerpt: "eBPF is what JavaScript is to HTML. It is a mechanism for Linux applications to execute code in Linux kernel space..."

---

  
## Bottom Lines?

- eBPF is what JavaScript is to HTML. 
- eBPF can run sandboxed programs in the Linux kernel without changing kernel source code or loading kernel modules.
- eBPF is a revolutionary technology because it lets programmers execute custom bytecode within the kernel without having to change the kernel or load kernel modules.
- eBPF is event-driven, i.e. each eBPF program is an event handler. These events are called “hooks”.
- eBPF programs interact with user-space programs via eBPF maps that are key-value pairs.

---

Memory is partitioned between kernel and user space in the Linux architecture. The kernel space is where the kernel core code and device drivers are executed. Kernel-space processes have complete access to all hardware, including the CPU, memory, and storage. All other processes operate in user space, which is dependent on the kernel for hardware access. User-space processes connect with the kernel through system calls to perform privileged tasks such as disc or network I/O.

  

While this separation provides a safe separation of processes, in certain circumstances the syscall interface is insufficient and developers want further flexibility to execute custom code directly in the kernel without modifying the kernel's source code. Linux offers Linux Kernel Modules for this purpose, which may be loaded directly into the kernel during runtime.

  

Kernel modules, on the other hand, pose security issues due to their ability to execute arbitrary code directly in the kernel space. A kernel module with erroneous code may easily crash the kernel. This is why, through eBPF, Linux offers a mechanism for running safe, certified sandboxed programmes in the kernel area.

  

## So What is eBPF?

  

eBPF is a mechanism for Linux applications to execute code in Linux kernel space. The website analogy may help you grasp eBPF: HTMLs are designed to be static. Javascripts enables you to create dynamic HTML webpages. For instance, on mouse click do X, or on page load perform Y. eBPF is what JavaScript is to HTML. Instead of a fixed kernel, eBPF enables the creation of mini-programs that run in response to events such as network transmit and are executed in a secure virtual machine inside the kernel.

The primary difference is that although it is possible for a malfunctioning Javascript to break your website, eBPF has inbuilt protections to prevent you from breaking the kernel.

  

## How does eBPF Work?


eBPF programs are event-driven, which means they can be hooked to certain events and will be run by the kernel when that particular event occurs. The program can store information in maps, print to ring buffers, or call a subset of kernel functions defined by a special API. The map and ring buffer structures are managed by the kernel, and the same map can be accessed by multiple eBPF programs in order to share data.


eBPF programs follow these steps:

1. The bytecode of the eBPF program is sent to the kernel along with a program type that determines where the program needs to be attached, which in-kernel helper functions the verifier will allow to be called, whether network packet data can be accessed directly, and what type of object will pass as the first argument to the program.

  

2. The kernel runs a verifier on the bytecode. The verifier runs several security checks on the bytecode, which make sure that the program terminates and does not contain any loop that could potentially lock up the kernel. It also simulates the execution of the eBPF program and checks the state of the virtual machine at every step to ensure the register and stack states are valid. Finally, it uses the program type to restrict the allowed kernel function calls from the program.

  

3. The bytecode is JIT-compiled into native code and attached to the specified location.

  

4. When the specified event occurs, the program is executed and writes data to the ring buffer or the map.

  

5. The map or ring buffer can be read by the user space to get the program result.

  

## What are the benefits of eBPF? 

eBPF is most commonly used to trace and profile user space processes, and more recently as a way to enhance observability capabilities. It has many distinct benefits over other methods:

- eBPF applications are sandboxed and verified, ensuring that the kernel does not crash or stall in a loop. This improves the security of kernel modules.

- eBPF shifts packet filtering from user space to kernel space, reducing superfluous packet copies and resulting in a large speed boost. The software runs rapidly since it is JIT-compiled.

- Using eBPF does not need the modification of kernel source code or the creation of full-fledged kernel modules. An eBPF application is simple to create and run.


## eBPF Tools

There are several open-source tools you can use to build custom programs that get loaded into the kernel at runtime, in case you want to get your hands dirty. The list includes:


-  <a  href="https://www.containiq.com/post/bcc-tools"  target="_blank"> BPF Compiler Collection (BCC)</a> provides a toolkit for building efficient kernel manipulation programs.

-  <a  href="https://github.com/ajor/bpftrace"  target="_blank"> bpftrace </a> is a high-level tracing language for eBPF programs.

- There are also language-specific tools like <a  href="https://github.com/iovisor/gobpf">gobpf</a> for Golang, <a  href="https://www.containiq.com/post/libbpf">libbpf</a> for C/C++, and <a  href="https://github.com/ingraind/redbpf">redbpf</a> for Rust.


## Conclusion

eBPF is a fantastic addition to the Linux kernel. The ability to execute code in the kernel in a safe and sandboxed manner is a useful tool for observability, network traffic management, and containerisation.

  

The <a  href="https://github.com/zoidbergwill/awesome-ebpf">offical eBPF repo </a> contains multiple resources for further research.

  
  

-------

>  **⚠ DISCLAIMER**

> Opinions expressed are solely my own and do not express the views or opinions of my employer.