---
layout: post
title:  "HashiCorp Certified Terraform Associate : Preparation Notes"
author: israel
categories: [ 'Cloud Native' ]
tags: [containers, terraform, cloud-native, automation, IaC ]
image: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2548160/104081935-fdcadf80-5229-11eb-8357-820bccd9d2fd.jpg
date:   2021-01-05 15:01:35 +0300
#date:   2021-07-05 06:01:35 +0300
permalink: /test/tf
#toc: true
---

Terraform is a declarative orchestration tool for provisioning and versioning infrastructure safely and efficiently. It simplifies management and orchestration of cloud, and it helps DevOps/SRE teams to build large-scale, cloud-multi (immutable) infrastructure. 

I have been working with Terraform at my workplace for a while. I recently challenged myself to delve deeper into other Terraform areas that I wasn't very familiar with by creating numerous hands-on labs that were mostly executed on the Raspberry Pi (but that's another blog post). The next challenge was to assess my skill; and what's a better way to verify my skills and competencies in Infrastructure as Code automation, using Terraform other than taking the Terraform Associate exam? The exam fee is affordable, and there can only be one of two outcomes –– a pass or fail. There is nothing to lose but a badge to gain, so I gave it a shot! 
According to HashipCorp, "Earners of the HashiCorp Certified: Terraform Associate certification know the basic concepts, skills, and use cases associated with open source HashiCorp Terraform. They understand and can utilise Terraform according to the certification objectives."

Terraform, as well as the <a href="https://www.hashicorp.com/certification/terraform-associate"> Terraform Certification </a> is gaining lots of popularity (at least in my network),  so I thought I would share what I did to prepare for the exam to help anyone in the community who is thinking of taking the exam to ace it. Whilst I cannot share the exam questions for obvious reasons, I can give you tips on how to ace the exam.
## Begin from the familiar

Given the inherent complexity of cloud (and hybrid) infrastructure, introducing new concepts like Terraform may add some steep learning curve, especially given that Terraform uses a custom domain-specific-language (DSL). To stay focused and motivated, I'd recommend you start your learning path from a familiar tool, project, tinker...anything. Chances are you have some level of familiarity with infrastructure automation or orchestration tool(s), such as Kubernetes, AWS CloudFormation, GCP Deployment Manager, Azure Resource Manager or even Ansible. My recommendation is to start from something you know or you have built. In my case, I have done a fair amount of work on infrastructure automation with Ansible and Kubernetes. I began by converting some my existing Kubernetes manifests and Ansible tasks into [HashiCorp Configuration Language (HCL)](https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration/syntax.html), doing that gave me a lot of appreciation for Terraform. The code is a lot cleaner. Terraform modules allow users to write once and re-use. Terraform abstracts idempotency for users, and it generates a full execution plan and dependency maps which you can export into <a href=" https://graphviz.org/doc/info/lang.html"> graphviz </a> in DOT format - to aid further analysis.

> Starting from the familiar will help you relate past pain points...

 Now being a `kubectl` fan, I wondered why some companies would prefer Terraform to `kubectl` –– to manage Kubernetes workload, but I am convinced now that I have seen the beauty of this tool. Big up to HashiCorp.

 In summary, get your hands really dirty with Terraform Configurations - start with monolith configurations, then convert it modules modules. Try calling a child module from a parent with variables, and accessing child module outputs from the calling module. 
## The Exam

While the exam is not as deep as a hands-on exam (because it's Associate level exam), it certainly challenges ones understanding of basic concepts and operations. 
I thought questions were approachable, although it may be because I have used Terraform for a while, or I’m comparing it to the Kubernetes Certified Associate exam which I also recently passed. The CKAD exam is intense.

Further, the exam questions are a combination of true/false, multiple choice, and multi-select questions. It is an online proctored exam, and you are expected to answer to attempt 57 questions in 60 minutes. The overall result is presented to you instantly.  Please refer to the <a href="https://www.hashicorp.com/certification/terraform-associate"> exam details page </a> for further details on the objectives.

## Study Materials

-  <a href="https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/associate-study"> Study Guide </a>:  I followed the study guide religiously whilst taking notes and testing out most of the commands on the terminal (where applicable). 

-  <a href= "https://www.terraformupandrunning.com/" target="_blank"> Terraform: Up & Running </a> :   This book was of immense help to me when I started learning Terraform. It also provided further elightenment on DevOps and Infra as code in general. 

- <a href= "https://www.udemy.com/course/terraform-associate-prep-course/" target="_blank"> HashiCorp Certified: Terraform Associate Prep Course 2020  </a> This an Udemy course by Warp 9 Training. Dude is straight to-the-point and it is a very good use of my 3 hours. There are some courses on Terraform that is about 10 - 14 hours long, I honestly, don't have that much time to commit. Warp 9's course is concise and very informative. 

 <a href= "https://www.udemy.com/course/terraform-associate-practice-exam/" target="_blank"> Udemy Practice Exam by Bryan Krausen </a> : Test your knowledge of HashiCorp Terraform with questions designed to ensure you're comfortable with a wide variety of Terraform topics.

## Summary
I can tell you from personal experience that Terraform’s popularity has skyrocketed. The launch of a formal certification for Terraform is a major milestone for HashiCorp, and I suspect the cert will be incredibly popular. The good news is that the exam was created with fairness and transparency in mind. What you see in the objectives is what you get in the exam. Between the resources above and practice time with the Terraform itself, I think you will be well positioned to pass the exam and achieve the Terraform Associate certification. Good luck, and let me know how you do!

Good luck and stay hungry 
